### Backend: The database and documentation

Given the heterogeneity in the sources of data input, the backend will
need to be composed of multiple components: raw data files as plain
text, cleaning and processing programming scripts, a formal database
structure (e.g. SQL), a VC system to track changes to the raw data and
processing scripts, a data version numbering system, a changelog
describing the changes, and a data dictionary linked to the variables
contained in the database. Versioning of the raw data and scripts is
done for recordkeeping, auditing, and transparency, in addition to
allowing comparison of data used between past and current projects that
use the data.

A major challenge to building the backend is in the heterogeneity of the
data input. The key is to establish and enforce a standardized Common
Data Model (CDM) for all incoming data at the point of entry. For the
framework, the exact contents of the database aren't important, since as
long as the contents follow the CDM it will be programmatically merged
into the final formal database. This is necessary as the database
contents depend heavily on the research topic and aims of the study that
will use this framework.

The backend documentation is either largely generated automatically or
manually written. For instance, the list of projects and findings would
be generated by the submitted projects and input from User 2
(researchers) while the changelog would be updated either by automated
additions or, optionally, manually from User 4. The data dictionary
would be stored as a JSON file with the documentation text itself as
Markdown text. This data dictionary would be publicly accessible and
could be updated by anyone (with approval from User 4), potentially
through "Merge Request" mechanisms. This mechanism involves
automatically linking any addition or correction back to the main
documentation and requesting it be merged into it.
