## Introduction

We have evaluated several web frameworks for the Seedcase project, and have
chosen Django as the most suitable option for the web framework.
This document describes the reasoning behind this decision and outlines the key
factors that influenced it.

## Decision

After evaluating Flask, Ruby on Rails, and Django, we have decided to use Django
as the web framework for our project.

## Alternatives Considered

### Flask

Flask is a lightweight web framework that is easy to use and has a low learning
curve. It provides a lot of flexibility and does not enforce any particular
project structure. Flask has a small footprint and is a good option for simple
web applications or prototypes.

However, Flask does not provide some of the advanced features that Django has,
such as an admin interface, an object-relational mapper (ORM), and a built-in
authentication system. These features would need to be implemented manually or
by using third-party libraries.

### Ruby on Rails

Ruby on Rails is a popular web framework that provides a lot of built-in
features and conventions. It has a large and active community and provides good
support for agile development practices. Ruby on Rails is a good option for
rapid application development and has good support for testing.

However, Ruby on Rails requires developers to have experience with the Ruby
programming language, which may not be ideal for all teams. Additionally, Ruby
on Rails has a large footprint and can be slow for certain use cases.

### FastAPI

FastAPI is a modern, high-performance web framework for building APIs with
Python. It is designed to be fast, and easy to use. FastAPI includes features
like automatic validation of request bodies, async support, and built-in OpenAPI
documentation. These features make it a popular choice for building scalable and
maintainable APIs, especially for applications that require high performance
real-time responses.

However, it's important to consider the specific needs of the application.
FastAPI may be a good choice for applications that require high performance
real-time responses, while Django may be a better fit for complex web
applications that require a full-stack framework with many built-in features.
Additionally, Django's mature and widely adopted nature means that it has a
large and active community, which can be a significant advantage in terms of
support and available resources.

## Factors that influenced the decision

Several factors influenced our decision to use Django over Flask and Ruby on
Rails as the web framework:

### API Development

Django provides excellent support for API development through its built-in
serialization framework and REST framework. The REST framework provides a lot of
functionality out of the box, such as authentication, pagination, and filtering.
Additionally, Django provides good support for other types of APIs, such as
GraphQL.

### Data Management

Django provides a powerful ORM that abstracts away much of the database logic
and allows developers to work with database models in a Pythonic way.
Additionally, Django provides good support for migrations, which makes it easy
to evolve the database schema over time. Django also provides a built-in admin
interface that allows non-technical users to manage data.

### Security

Django provides good support for security through its built-in authentication
system and its support for common security practices such as CSRF protection and
password hashing. Additionally, Django provides good support for role-based
access control and fine-grained permissions.

### User Management

Django provides good support for user management through its built-in
authentication system and its support for user profiles and social
authentication. Additionally, Django provides good support for password resets
and account activation.

## Conclusion

After evaluating Flask, Ruby on Rails, and Django, we have made the decision
that Django is the better fit for the project.